---
layout: post
title:  "2020 is finally over."
date:   2021-01-03 10:07:03 -0600
categories: Reflection
published: false
---

2020 was quite the year for me and the world.  In a matter of days in the early spring, the coronavirus completely changed the world.  As of this writing over 350,000 Americans have died.  Over twenty million have been infected.  I'm currently one of them.  My wife was informed Christmas day that she tested positive.  So far we are doing well, with only minor symptoms. But this pandemic has changed so much.  It is such a humbling experience to change the life of every person on the planet seemingly overnight. 

But this year Corona Virus wasn't the only somber topic.  This year also saw racial inequality thrust into our consciousness.  After the killing of George Floyd America could no longer look away from our societies glaring imperfections.  I've wondered why this year was the year the country was finally pushed to notice how aweful we are to black people. This wasn't even close to being the first unjustified killing of a black person by the police.  So why this time did people finally take to the streets.  Maybe it was because we have an openly racist president, or maybe its the fact that now injustices are on full display weekly because technology has allowed victims to display police brutality to the world.  For this I am partially grateful.  Before these displays to the world I was woefully blind to what our society actually is.  I thought we were, at least for the most part, a just nation.  And while in some ways I think we are, we still have very far to go when it comes to how Black communities fit into our society. Progress is still very much needed. I do not know how I can be a force for change yet.  But I know it needs to be done and after 2020 I am committed to doing something.

This year, despite the hardships in the world, my wife and I had some amazing moments.  We were able to travel to Baja, Mexico at the end of February.  It was surreal to read the news as the virus spread across Europe and China and then the US, while we ate fish tacos on the beach.  A highlight of the trip was snorkeling with whale sharks and sea lions in La Paz bay. Visiting other countries is always such an amazing experience.  I feel lucky to get to see the different ways people live. There was a festival happening while we were there that was amazing.  There were street vendors and bounce houses.  We got to each Churros and ice cream.  There was rap battle contest with teenagers.  It was amazing. 

Being in lock down also gave me the opportunity to do a lot.  We couldn't see friends so we had I had a lot of time to learn new programming languages and exercise.  I launched my first app that I made in Django [Southwest Plants Database](http://www.swpdb.com). I learned a ton of thing in R.  I made my first packages.  One if a custom theme and another is a group of functions to analyze and load data for the BLM Aim program.  Both are very much a work in progress, but they will forever change how I work in R.  I got somewhat competent in Javascript finally.  I learned ExpressJS and can build a REST API backend.  I also got a handle of VueJS as a front end framework. I now have lots to build.  Sadly, I think I may be done doing freelance web development.  I don't think building Wordpress websites is where I want to spending my energy as a programmer. 

The pandemic also brought a lot of opportunity to get outside and exercise.  Until we got COVID, I was finally getting back into decent shape.  The last 3 or 4 years, I've excersized less than at any other point in my life. I think it was good to take a break, but as I'm now in my mid thirties, my body was kind of starting to feel the effects of such a sedentary life style.  And lucky for me, I happen to live in a recreational mecca. I love where I live because of how much there is to do outside.  We spent a good amount of time in the mountains this year.  I really got to know my home trails on my mountain bike.  It was really nice. I also started running.  I'll talk about it later 


